Name: Moses Wayne
netID: msw38
Project: Breakout Game

Plan:

Variant of Breakout that I found interesting:
I found the "Worms" variant of Breakout to be the most interesting because of 
all of the different power up mechanics. I found that the power ups to the game
added a certain depth to Breakout by making it much more interesting while 
still staying true to the core mechanics of Breakout. There is a lot of 
flexibility in the direction in which to take Breakout in adding power ups to 
the game both in terms of differing functionality and playability because of
the vast number of possible power ups to use. I also thought that the falling
power up containers was a nice touch in the game. 
I also found the "Vortex" variant of breakout to be interesting in that the 
game's mechanic for movement is very different from all of the other variants 
of Breakout. Since the bar for the game rotates in a circle, there are no 
bounds for its movement, and it is able to hit the ball from any side. I found
this mechanic of the game to be interesting. 

Plan for development of the Breakout game:
My intention for this game of Breakout is to make a variant of Breakout that 
stays true to the main component of Breakout while adding elements to make the
game significantly more challenging and entertaining. This would add elements
like both a top and bottom bar to the game and other elements like bricks (the 
blocks in the game) reappearing after some event.

Levels:
Different levels of game will have different block layouts with higher levels 
having blocks that are more difficult to break (numerous hits needed to break 
the block). Creating patterns and spelling things can also signal higher 
levels. As levels increase, the blocks will also get closer to the paddle.

Different Blocks:
- blocks of different colors that need to be hit multiple times to break (each
  hit changes the color and the hits needed to break the block)
- power up bricks that drop power ups to the paddle
- "?" bricks that randomly change the direction of the ball or drop a "power
  down" something that makes the game harder to play

Different Power Ups:
- make the paddle bigger
- make ball stronger (ball can break harder blocks more easily)
- paddle speed up (make the paddle move faster)
- multiple balls (has numerous balls on screen)
- shoot bricks from paddle

Cheat Keys:
- number keys can be used to jump between levels
- using the "l" key adds a life to the user
- using the "a" key makes the ball much stronger (can go through bricks)

Something Extra:
I will add another paddle at the top of the screen that will be used to hit the
ball back instead of the top of the screen default bouncing the ball. The big, 
substantial features that I am adding are the feature of the bricks reappearing
after some event and a substantial number of power ups (and power downs).
